upgrade docs signifficant refinement (#2296)
elastic/docs-content: deploy-manage/upgrade/deployment-or-cluster/elasticsearch.md

  stack:
  deployment:
    self: all
products:
  - id: elasticsearch
---

# Upgrade {{es}} [upgrading-elasticsearch]

An {{es}} cluster can be upgraded one node at a time so upgrading does not interrupt service. Running multiple versions of {{es}} in the same cluster beyond the duration of an upgrade is not supported, as shards cannot be replicated from upgraded nodes to nodes running the older version.

:::{note}
Upgrading from a release candidate build, such as 9.0.0-rc1, is unsupported. Use pre-releases only for testing in a temporary environment.
:::

> Before you start, [take the upgrade preparation steps](/deploy-manage/upgrade/prepare-to-upgrade.md).

Reviewer: maybe also needed here: https://docs-v3-preview.elastic.dev/elastic/docs-content/pull/2296/deploy-manage/upgrade/deployment-or-cluster/kibana#preventing-migration-failures

## {{es}} nodes upgrade order

When performing a [rolling upgrade](#rolling-upgrades):

> 1. Upgrade the data nodes first, tier-by-tier, starting with the frozen tier, then the cold tier, then the warm tier, then the hot tier, and finally any other data nodes which are not in a tier. Complete the upgrade for all nodes in each data tier before moving to the next. This ensures {{ilm-init}} can continue to move data through the tiers during the upgrade. You can get the list of nodes in a specific tier with a `GET /_nodes` request, for example: `GET /_nodes/data_frozen:true/_none`.

Reviewer: things that have an order like this should probably be in a child list:

```suggestion
1. Upgrade the data nodes first, tier-by-tier, in the following order: 
    1. The frozen tier
    2. The cold tier
    3. The warm tier
    4. The hot tier
    5. Any other data nodes which are not in a tier.
    
    Complete the upgrade for all nodes in each data tier before moving to the next. This ensures {{ilm-init}} can continue to move data through the tiers during the upgrade. You can get the list of nodes in a specific tier with a `GET /_nodes` request, for example: `GET /_nodes/data_frozen:true/_none`.
```
